data - raw details that are unprocessed that is usually stored in a file.

related data is called information.

database- set of inter related data

schema - 

chars of a db - 

1. controlling redundant/duplicate data
2. sharing of data
3. maintains integrity
4. data independence
5. support for transaction control and recovery
6. availability of tools
7. control over security
8. hardware independence

levels of abstraction -

1. conceptual level - the overall integrated structural organization of the db
2. physical level - info about how the db is actually stored in the disk.
3. external level - the user view of the db

--------------------------------------------------------
Physical level - This is the lowest level of data abstraction. It tells us how the data is actually stored in memory.

Conceptual level - This level comprises the information that is actually stored in the database in the form of tables. It also stores the relationship among the data entities in relatively simple structures.

External level - This is the highest level of abstraction. Only a part of the actual database is viewed by the users. This level exists to ease the accessibility of the database by an individual user. Users view data in the form of rows and columns.

self study topics to be checked out :-
normalization, star schema, snowflake schema, flat file, dimension modelling, generalization, specialization, er diagram, cardinality


data integrity - 

primary key is used to make an element unique from the other elements

logical integrity - 

dba - database administrator
it is responsible for the design and implementation of new dbs and constantly manage the dbs, 


----------------------------------------

sql - structured query language - non procedural in nature

pl sql - procedural sql

dql: data query lang - SELECT
dml: data manipulation lang - DELETE,INSERT,UPDATE,MERGE
ddl: data definition lan - DROP,TRUNCATE,CREATE,ALTER
tcl: Transaction control lng - COMMIT,ROLLBACK,SAVEPOINT
dcl: data control lang - REVOKE,GRANT

datatypes
no- int
char - varchar
date - date

select * from employee where age between 20 and 23;

select to_char(dob, 'DD-MM-YYYY')dob, rollno from employee;

select * from employee where age in (20,21,23,26);

select * from employee where age not in (20,21,23,26);

having and where clause are similar. For grouping you use, having and for individual you use where.

create student table - name, percentage, extra columns if needed - enter 5,6 data, perc - 80-90. group b y stdent and perc, use having clause > 85




